[Jenifer Girke] The day that changed everything.
On 7 October, Meron Mendel’s world stood still.
[Meron Mendel] Everybody continued their life. I
said: Stop! I can’t! [JG] Peace for Israel:
That’s what he’s fighting for. In his homeland
and in Germany. As a kibbutznik. As an Israeli soldier.
As the Director of the Anne Frank Educational Centre.
He builds bridges between cultures. He loves Israel.
And criticises it. He was raised to be peaceful.
[David Mendel] We taught you not to hate and to
always seek peace. [JG] He’s travelling to his
wounded homeland. He wants to support his family
and friends. To grieve, digest and hope together.
[Yehuda] There was a special happiness that she had.
I’ll miss it. [JG] It’s a journey to an Israel that
has to find itself again. To a familiar yet foreign
homeland. With an uncertain future.
[Mohammad] Will Israel give the Palestinians a state
00:01:01,000 --> 00:01:05,000
after Hamas is over? [Ilan] The only way is with two
states. [JG] It’s also a journey into his own past.
Into his own beliefs. How much of this remains after
7 October? [Itai] We think the solution is peace.
[Rahel] It’s not enough to just want peace.
[JG] Meron Mendel wants to know: “What’s next for
my Israel?”
[INTRO]
A suitcase full of pain. Returning to Israel is a
familiar feeling for Meron Mendel. But this time
everything is different. Not all of his loved
ones survived the terrorist attack on 7 October.
[MM] I’ve been living in Germany for over 20 years.
But all those years meant nothing in that moment.
I suddenly realised that I belong there. That’s
where I grew up. That’s where my childhood friends
are. My family is there. I need to be there.
[JG] Meron Mendel came to Frankfurt in 2003.
Today he directs the Anne Frank Educational Centre
and is a professor of social work. The 47-year-old
is married to the political scientist
Saba-Nur Cheema. She’s a Muslim. He’s a Jew.
Together they promote diversity in society.
They’re passionate about peace in the Middle East.
Even now. What’s next for Israel? A very personal
question for Meron Mendel. And one he needs to
ask to overcome his own trauma from 7 October.
He’ll get answers. And we’ll join him on his journey.
[MM] I’ve been waiting for this moment for over a
month. Yes, I’m excited. But I’m also very tense.
[Aeroplane announcement] “Solidarity with Israel”.
We arrive. The airport corridors are lined with
pictures of hostages. As we’re about to leave…
We hear an air-raid siren. The next bunker is too
far away. The way there is too dangerous.
[MM] Now we’ve truly arrived. [JG] After a while,
we’re given the all-clear. We’re finally on the
way to Mashabe Sade. On the way home. But then…
Our car breaks down in the middle of the highway.
It’s not long before a young Arab comes over.
The Bedouin lives nearby and wants to help out as
fast as he can. A few minutes later, a Jewish-Israeli
reservist also stops to lend a hand. A fitting start to
our journey between cultures. Togetherness in action.
This is the Israel that Meron Mendel
knows and loves.
[MM] Straight on. Straight on. We’re almost there.
[JG] First stop: his parents’ house. He hugs his
mother and father. That’s important to him. They’re
reunited after a year. Reunited after 7 October.
[MM] What’s new in the kibbutz? [DM] Not much…
Well, there’s a war going on. That dictates
everyday life. [MM] Have a lot of people from the
kibbutz been mobilised? [DM] Of course. There’s a
general mobilisation. All reservists have been
called up to the army. [JG] Fight for your own
existence. That’s how Meron was raised. His parents
met during the Yom Kippur War in October 1973.
Many stories in Israel – even love stories – begin
with a battle. [DM] My father was in the War of
Independence and the Six-Day War. I was in the
Yom Kippur War. You were in the Lebanon War. And
Eyal is in the Gaza War. [JG] Meron’s mother is
worried. For Israel and her sons. The youngest is
on the front line. [Haviva Mendel] Two, three, four
soldiers are killed every day. I’m very worried.
This is the kibbutz where Meron Mendel grew up.
In the middle of the Negev Desert. [MM] Trees, meadows…
Our kibbutz wanted to let the desert flourish. And
those hills are military training areas. I used to run
and shoot there back in the day. [JG] There are no
shooting drills at the moment. Most of the soldiers
are probably on duty in Gaza. Show respect. Work hard.
Share instead of owning. These values had a strong
influence on his upbringing. [MM] And here’s the
school. [The sound of fighter jets] That’s
completely normal: war up there, lessons down here.
[JG] One thing is much more exciting than war:
our camera. Meron was a pupil here himself 40
years ago. [MM] Is anyone here from near Gaza?
[Children] Me… me… me… [JG] The gate remains locked.
There are soldiers everywhere. They want to protect
themselves. From terrorists. [JG] What values were
taught to you here as a child? What kind of person
are you raised to be here in the kibbutz? [MM] The most
important thing is to be productive and
contribute to the community. The entire kibbutz movement
is part of the peace movement. Hardly anyone supports
Netanyahu’s nationalist government. But that doesn’t
mean that you grow up together with Palestinians.
[JG] Be open to other cultures. Live in peace with
everyone. But keep your distance. This attitude still
rings true in the kibbutz. Meron’s father has been
painting for many years. The 71-year-old deals
with the problems facing the Bedouins. Around
200,000 of them live in Israel. Little attention
is paid to the nomadic Arab people. [DM] You
wouldn’t believe it. There are high-voltage power
lines running over their huts, which are all made
of sheet metal. [JG] That particular metal hut is
home to Eid Ratil. Meron’s father visits him
regularly. The two often meet over a cup of tea.
But it’s a friendship with limits. And those limits
were taught to Meron Mendel. You can play with local
Arab children. But you can’t welcome them into the
kibbutz. One reason: Kibbutzim are largely homogenous
communities. To this day. Meron Mendel has challenged
this idea more and more over the years. And he’s
built up a circle of friends who advocate for peace
and cohesion between Jewish and Arab Israelis.
One of them is Avital Benshalom. They’ve been
close friends for many years. She stands here
every day, demanding the release of all hostages.
The same wish in every Israeli’s heart.
[Avital Benshalom] These are the two cute redheads…
from Be’eri… It’s just awful… I haven’t even got
round to crying yet. [JG] A shoulder to cry on.
An important moment for Meron. [AB] I’m quite angry.
Releasing the people isn’t the first goal of this
war. But it should be. [JG] One of the demonstrators
is Shaul Levy. He’s a family friend who has known Meron
since he was little. His 19-year-old granddaughter,
Na’ama, was abducted. The footage has been seen
around the world. But instead of being comforted,
he’s the comforter. [SL] Stay strong… [MM] I can’t.
I can’t get the images of Na’ama out of my head.
I don’t know how you do it… [SL] You take a
deep breath… And keep going. There’s no other way.
The young soldier had just started her military
service. Na’ama wanted to become a diplomat.
She campaigned for reconciliation. [SL] She’s attended
lots of “Hands of Peace” forums abroad. Where Jews
meet Palestinians. [JG] Her chances of ever being
released are uncertain. Her grandfather still
believes in a happy ending. For Na’ama and the whole
of Israel. [SL] There’s hope… It’s not just hope.
I’m sure we’ll get back on the right path.
[JG] Meron is amazed by his strength. Hope and
grief are inextricably bound in this country.
Meron Mendel’s homeland is hurting. But it won’t
give up just yet. [MM] I’m a bit more optimistic
than I was a few days ago. I see that people are
determined no matter what. As Avital and Shaul said,
we might be on the canvas right now, but now we can
rebuild. Make a fresh start. We have to rethink our
future and do something about it. I find that so
strong. [JG] This optimism is
constantly being put to the test.
Rethinking the future is also inevitable for the
country’s many refugees. One of them is Itai.
A friend from Meron’s university days.
His German-Israeli family lived in a town on the
border with Gaza. Until two months ago. They want to
go back. They want to know how things are at home.
[MM] You can probably remember a few years back…
We were hiking through the desert with a few friends
of mine from Germany, with sleeping bags and
everything. My friends asked you what it was like
living on the border with Gaza. And you said so
casually: It’s not a problem with all the rockets
because we live so close to the border. They fly
over us to Ashkelon, to Tel Aviv. It’s safe where
we are. [JG] Safety: a feeling that has been gone
since 7 October. Meron tried to reach his friend
for hours. It wasn’t until late in the evening that
that he knew they were alive. [MM] That was one of
the nicest messages I’ve ever received.
[JG] The place almost seems dead. When the siren
sounds, you have 15 seconds to get to safety.
There are shelters everywhere. Many of them served
as a refuge on 7 October. [Itai] An old woman,
the mother of a close childhood friend. She ran from
her house behind that tree into there. A terrorist
saw her inside and shot her. [JG] Itai lost 20
neighbours that day. Those who lived here are either
dead or have fled. They were torn from their lives.
All that’s left here are a few abandoned cats.
Explosions are still ringing out. The Gaza Strip
is just a few hundred metres away. [MM] I spent a
lot of time in Gaza as a child. Not in that part but
on the beach. It was the closest beach to the kibbutz.
We played with Palestinian children in the sand.
Things were much different back then. [JG] Despite all
the destruction, as soon as Itai turns onto his street,
he feels at home. [Itai] That’s our house. Home at
last… And here… This is our shelter. This is where
we were on 7 October. There was a mattress here.
I took things from the fridge. [JG] They spent
over 12 hours here in the dark. Itai and his
daughter came up with an emergency plan. They hid
two long kitchen knives in the cupboard.
[Maya Shimonovich] If someone were to come in,
I was going to hide in here and the they would have
the knives. [MM] Were you scared? [MS] Yes, very.
They take some food and their favourite clothes.
At least a little bit of their normal lives.
Will they ever be able to live here again? Itai
wants to come back. However: [Itai] I hope that it’s
actually safe to come back. We’re peaceful people.
We think the solution is peace.
[Tini Maisberger] We actually felt completely safe
here before 7 October. We thought we were living in
maximum security. We never locked the house. We left
the car key in the ignition at times. And the children
were out at night with friends in the village. We
thought everything was completely safe. But it turns
out it’s not. It’s not safe at all. [JG] You can sense
the inner conflict. This is their home. Or at least
it was. They’re currently staying with relatives,
about a 4-hour drive from Netiv HaAsara. There we
meet Itai’s wife Tini and daughter Maya again.
Tini is from Munich. She was in Germany on 7 October.
She found out about the terrorist attack via
WhatsApp. [TM] It’s obviously awful when you’re
3,000 km away and can’t do anything. [JG] It was
an agonising wait, not knowing whether she would
ever see her family again. But Tini doesn’t feel hate.
She feels sympathy – for the people in Gaza.
[TM] I can’t change the way things are. But I just
think it’s an important feeling to have. You shouldn’t
just close yourself off and have no compassion.
[JG] Maya is defying Hamas’s terror with unwavering
hope. She sees her future in Israel. [MS] I love
Israel! Perhaps my dreams are too big, but I just
want peace. Because there was a lot of hate here
before the war. Not only between Palestinians and
Israelis, but also amongst people in Israel.
I just want us to love and see one another.
[JG] She refuses to let 7 October divide her family,
destroy her values or shake her belief in a peaceful
Israel. [JG] Not all of Meron’s friends survived.
Shachar and her husband Shlomi were brutally murdered.
Shachar’s family is like a second home to Meron.
He’s been friends with her brother Yehuda since
they were 15. Her parents see Meron as their own
son. [Ilan] Welcome. How are you? [JG] Asks a man
in need of comfort himself. For her mother,
Rahel, there’s nothing left to say.
[Rahel Troen] At the funeral, I found myself
repeating the words of a song: 'Sometimes it’s me,
Sometimes it’s you, Who is so in need of comfort'.
I felt it was important to comfort one another.
[JG] It’s a song that Shachar used
to sing herself.
Shachar. Her name meant “sunrise”. She was known
her gentle heart, confident of peace. Her family
can’t fathom her death. [IT] Our children believed in
the possibilities of mutual understanding. Not just
of stereotyping and hating one another.
[RT] They believed it was important to engage with
people who are actually different, who have different
beliefs. Not only a different language, a different
culture. [JG] Shachar and her husband Shlomi made
a conscious decision to move to Kibbutz Holit.
Knowing full well that living near Gaza could be
dangerous. They refused to be intimidated.
They wanted to have a positive impact on society.
They co-founded a Jewish-Arab school.
[Yehuda Troen] There was a special happiness that
she had. I’ll miss it. [JG] They’d celebrated her
50th birthday just 6 days before her death. Full of
laughter, warmth and friendliness. That’s how
Shachar was. And so was the Israel she died for.
[YT] She was so happy. Shlomi was so happy.  They were
so good together. That’s how I’ll try to
remember her. And not focus on her horrible death.
Her father Ilan is looking for a rational explanation
to cope with the loss. His view: Hamas wanted to
exterminate the Jews. [MM] Has your political opinion
changed since 7 October? [IT] For me it’s become
even more stuck. It made me even more convinced
that the only way is with two states. For me it’s
proof that it’s impossible for one people to take
this whole territory. So maybe this could be a
turning point. Maybe. [JG] Could 7 October really
be a turning point? They’d like to think so.
But Rahel also admits that it’s never been as hard
to cling on to peace as it is now. [RT] It’s not enough
to just want peace and work for peace, coexistence
and mutual understanding. If you’re working with
somebody who actually rejects the very idea of it.
[JG] Meron would like to pay his respects at her grave.
00:21:40,000 --> 00:12:47,000
He’s suddenly joined by Rotem, the son of Shachar and
Shlomi. He recounts how he survived and the others
died. The family ran into the shelter. His mother
told him to hide between the wall and the bed.
[Rotem Mathias] And then she laid on top of me.
I heard them scream 'Allahu Akbar', and then they
blew up the door. My dad screamed that he’d lost
his arm. There were gunshots, and they threw a grenade.
[JG] His parents died upon impact. Rotem remained
under his mother for almost an hour. [RM] I pushed
my mum’s body away. I saw  that there where clumps
of flesh on the bed. [JG] He had no time to process
what he’d seen. He heard the voices of terrorists
again. [RM] So I went to my parents’ bedroom. I took
a cover, put it on top of me and prayed to God.
But not the Jewish God. Not Allah. I don’t know.
I just prayed to any God. Even Zeus.
[JG] The 16-year-old had to wait ten hours for help
to arrive. He was seriously wounded in the attack.
But he wouldn’t have survived without his parents’
sacrifice. [RM] I’m glad I know them as heroes.
[JG] The tombstone cites a verse from the
Song of Songs: “Mighty waters cannot  quench
love. Rivers cannot sweep it away”.
Israel is not just experiencing loss and pain on
the Jewish side. We’re on the way to the Arab town
of Iksal. We drive past Jewish settlements.
[JG] Are we about to see a completely different
side to Israel? [MM] Israel is very diverse.
That’s part of its identity. We’re not going to
the West Bank. We’re on the border with the West Bank,
but Iksal is actually part of Israeli society.
The people there see themselves as Palestinians -
but with Israeli citizenship. [JG] One of those
people is Mohammad Darawshe. He’s a close friend and
role model for Meron. They’re united by their
joint efforts for peace between Palestinians
and Jews. The attacks on 7 October hit him very
personally. Hamas didn’t spare Palestinians. They,
too, were targets. Mohammad’s cousin, Awad, was
one of their victims. [Mohammad Darawshe] His focus
was on saving lives. That was his dream.
[JG] The 23-year-old was working as a paramedic
at the Supernova Festival. When the terror broke out,
he provided first aid to many of the wounded.
[MD] He had bandages in his hands. He ran from
one injured person to the next until the bullets
started coming closer. [JG] His colleagues ran for
their lives. Awad refused. [MD] He said: You go.
I speak Arabic. I think I’ll manage. [JG] Less than
60 seconds later, he was hit by two bullets.
His funeral prayers were led by Muslim imams and
Jewish rabbis. Awad died as a proud Palestinian
and a proud Israeli. [MD] If people in leadership:
Israelis, Palestinians, Jews, Arabs, Muslims,
Christians whoever… If more people focused on
humanity, decisions might be different.
[JG] Seeking dialogue. Building  bridges instead
of walls. A mindset that starts with the little things.
Like coffee, for instance. [MD] If you like…
[MM] That’s the most Israeli stuff. [MD] And this
is also connected to your culture. [MD] So you
have all the cultures in your kitchen. [MD] Yes,
but this is the best… Smell it. [MM] Cardamon.
[MD] Exactly! [JG] But it takes more than just
making Arabic coffee together. They quickly get
back to the topic. [MD] I believe that without a
political solution, we’re going to have many more
attacks like 7 October. The Palestinians deserve to
have their human dignity protected, and that cannot
be protected under occupation. [JG] Mohammad doesn’t
just see the occupation as a problem. It’s the problem.
[MD] So let’s finish Hamas today. Let’s start with
a clean sheet. Will Israel give the Palestinians a
state after Hamas is over? No, and that’s the problem!
[MM] I think that Israel is much more complicated.
There’s not one Israel. There’s different Israels.
[MD] I haven’t seen a single Israeli who is
willing to give the Palestinians their state yet.
[MM] I know a few. I agree with you. The occupation
is a very big problem. The settlements are a huge problem.
[JG] They agree that holding discussions is important.
But there also needs to be some political will.
And precisely that is lacking. [MD] We can make
personal peace between us. You as a Jew and me as
a Palestinian. But it needs to transcend to collective
peace. And for collective peace, you need need
political frameworks. [JG] There are no simple
solutions to this conflict. [JG] Could you understand
his harsh criticism? He said that if we don’t
change the occupation problem and the political
dimension, then we’ll see one 7 October after
the other. [MM] Mohammad was right to criticise
the occupation. But I find it troubling from an
analytical standpoint when he says that the occupation
is the only problem. At certain points during the
conversation, I felt that he almost absolved Hamas
of responsibility and justified their actions.
As though Hamas should act like that as long as
the occupation persists. [JG] Friendship despite
disagreement. Letting others have their say, even if
they disagree with you. Meron Mendel thinks this
principle is often neglected in Israel.
This is demonstrated most clearly in the West Bank.
That’s exactly where we’re going.
Our destination: Hebron. A microcosm of the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Nowhere are settlers
and Palestinians confronted so directly. Meron Mendel
spent a lot of time there as a young soldier.
What does the region look like today, especially
after 7 October? [JG] What is your most vivid
memory of Hebron? [MM] The settlers in Hebron who
threw stones at passers-by from the rooftops.
An extreme racist ideology is drilled into them
from the start. They think they’re better than
the rest. [JG] In 1997, the city was divided into
a Palestinian and a Jewish sector. The latter is
controlled by the Israeli military. The market is
in the heart of the Palestinian sector. Each seller
tries to outprice the other on vegetables. It seems
bizarrely normal. But Meron also notices that
the city has changed. And not for the better.
This road used to be open. [MM] Here we can already
see the first settlements in Hebron. [JG] So now
we’re in Palestinian territory. [MM] That’s right.
[JG] And that’s Israeli territory over there.
[MM] Yes and no. That settlement is Jewish,
so to speak, but the house next door is Palestinian.
So they’re really just individual houses along
that street. [JG] We’re not allowed on the Jewish
side. The soldiers send us to the next checkpoint.
[MM] She asked whether we were Jewish. [JG] To get in?
[M] Yes, to get in. I’m shocked. [JG] They check
our passports and press badges. No luck. That’s
the end of the road for today. [MM] Thousands of
Palestinians live there. And now they’re almost
imprisoned. I don’t know how they get to their houses.
Or have they already been kicked out? [JG] We soon
get an answer. This Palestinian lives in the
Jewish sector. [Ismael Kakarki] They only open the
gate on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays. From 7 am
to 5 pm. [JG] He says that access regulations have
been even stricter since 7 October. The residents
are harassed on a daily basis. [IK] Our life is a
tragedy. We’re living in one big prison We’re not
allowed to open our windows. Women are assaulted.
And we use the roofs to hang out our laundry.
Today is Saturday. The settlers will drink
alcohol and throw bottles at our windows.
[JG] At the time Hebron was divided, around 35,000
Palestinians were living in the Jewish sector. Just ten
years later, over 40% of them had left the area.
[MM] Those Jewish settlers have no place in this
city. More generally speaking, there should
be no settlements anywhere in the West Bank.
The only solution to this conflict is the
two-state solution. [JG] Hebron is an extreme case.
Peaceful coexistence seems impossible there.
But there are also places in Israel where Jews and
Palestinians can interact without restrictions.
Those approaches need to be promoted even more,
says Meron Mendel.
Like these boys and girls. True beacons of hope
for Meron Mendel. This is the only bilingual school
in southern Israel. A project that is particularly
close to the educator’s heart. Here he meets
Avital again. She runs the school. [AB] So this is
our school. We have a vision to create an equal
educational environment for Jewish and Arab
students. [JG] Over 300 children learn side by side
here up to the 6th grade. It’s been this way for
15 years. Even now, in times of war. They’ve set up
a little mourning corner. [AB] To show their compassion
towards everyone: soldiers, their families here in
Israel or in Gaza… So it’s kind of a safe space.
You just put your letter in here and it’s private.
[JG] Some of the children share their thoughts
openly. Like Natem. The 11-year-old has written
a letter to the children of Gaza.
[Tanya Zion Waldoks] He wrote: "We care about you
and want to help you. But for now, just try to
survive. So don’t stop believing you will succeed”.
He wrote it to the children. But I think it’s also
a message to parents. Hopefully the children
growing up with this are able to become the leaders
of tomorrow. Then maybe we have hope. [JG] A Jewish
child in Israel instinctively expresses sympathy
for an Arab child in Gaza. It seems trivial.
And yet it’s a small miracle. They sit in on a
class. You can sense how much
Avital cares about her protégés.
[children are singing]
[MM] It was so amazing to see them. How they love
each other. [AB] They’re pretty good children.
And I think they’re privileged to be together in
such a situation. [JG] The privilege of not having
to hate one another. Three quarters of the
Israeli population are Jews. Around 20% are Arabs.
Israel’s schools are generally divided
into Arabic and Jewish.
[MM] We both grew up in a segregated school
system. Why is that? [AB] I think it’s the original
sin of Israeli society. A Jewish child doesn’t have
the opportunity to meet an Arab child maybe until
he gets to university. [JG] But many beliefs and
prejudices have already become entrenched by then.
That’s exactly what Arabic teacher Samira wants to
break down. [Samira Alhawarin] You have to know the
heritage of the Islamic, Jewish and Christian
cultures. Then you can move away from hate,
plant seeds of love and let it grow. If you
understand me and I understand you, there’s no more
room for hate. Only love. [JG] The 28-year-old
sees Israel’s future through the eyes of her students.
[SA] Nobody here would ever say: 'Go away! You’re
an Arab. I’m not playing with you'. Or: 'Go away!
You’re a Jew'. They’re a community. So I see a
brighter future with these children. As long as
they continue on that path. That will also
guide our entire country to a brighter future.
[JG] And what do the children think?
[Amir] I hope there will be peace. Almost every
child in this school would say the same.
[Dania] They see that I’m Arab, so they just ask me:
'Who are you with – Palestine or Israel?'
I’m like, 'I respect everyone. I'm with neither.'
[Youssef (next to Yazaan)] The Jews learn our
language. And we Arabs learn their language.
They learn our holidays. We learn their holidays.
It’s just fun to be at this school. [JG] It’s words
like these that motivate Avital. It’s the only way
for peace to really prevail at some point. Even if
there’s still a very long way to go. [MM] What we
have here is 1% of the school system. 99% is
segregated. We have to turn that around. If 99%
grew up in a mixed environment, peace could truly be
achieved from the ground up. [JG] Meron Mendel is
convinced that real peace building begins with
education. And it’s never too late to start.
“What’s next for my Israel?”. This question has been
playing on Meron Mendel’s mind since 7 October.
The journey is coming to an end. How do you look
back on the past eight days? [MM] I’ve met people
who are very close to my heart. Some of them I’ve
known for 30 or 40 years. There are so many things
that unite us. And yet I’ve now seen a completely
different side to them. They’ve been completely
reshaped by the past year. And I don’t just mean
7 October. They spent a year fighting for democracy.
Against the government. And since October, they’ve
been fighting for their existence. That’s what
everyone is saying. It’s our existence at stake.
[JG] What kind of future do you see for Israel?
[MM] What gives me hope is the cohesion of civil
society. Everyone we’ve spoken to has made one point
very clear: There’s a desire for peace. Both the
Palestinians we’ve spoken to, such as
Mohammad Darawshe, and Jewish Israelis. That’s a
real glimmer of hope in very dark times.
[JG] Everyone is hurting. Jews and Palestinians.
They’re united in their suffering. Therein lies an
opportunity. To make amends. To rethink Israel
together. Meron Mendel has met people with
the strength and desire to do exactly that.
They’ve strengthened his own belief in a peaceful
future. His homeland has rarely been so fragile.
Its future is on a knife edge. He feels more connected
to the country and its people than ever before.
[CREDITS]